.TH neix 1 "30th April 2021" "v0.1.5" "neix man page"

.SH NAME
.B neix
- RSS/Atom feed reader for your terminal.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neix
is an terminal feed reader for all common RSS/Atom feeds on the web out there.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B neix 
is an terminal feed reader for all common RSS/Atom feeds on the web out there. 
It is free/libre software which protects your freedom. 
You got the full control of your news you want to read!

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v
Prints the installed version of *neix* and exits.

.TP
.B -i <path>
Import feeds of given OPML file and exits.
Path can be absolute or relative. The OPML file has to be a valid!
See OPML specification: http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html

.TP
.B -e <path>
Export feeds to given file or path.
Path can be absolute or relative. 
Creates and OPML file in version 2.0.
See OPML specification: http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html

.TP
.B -f <filename>
Use a custom feed configuration file. Have to be the same format as the default feed config file.
Must be located in the default neix config folder: ~/.config/neix/<filename>

.SH RUNTIME COMMANDS
.TP
.B q
Close the current opened article or quit neix when you on the not reading an article.

.TP
.B ENTER
Open the selected article to read.

.TP
.B o 
Open the current article in the browser (or with the programm you configured in the main config file).

.TP
.B j
Select the next article in the current feed list.

.TP
.B k
Select the previous article in the current feed list.

.TP
.B Shift + j
Select the next feed of the loaded feed list.

.TP
.B Shift + k
Select the previous feed of the loaded feed list.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I
~/.config/neix/neix.conf
This is the main config file of neix. Below you can see all available options.

.
.RS 1.2i
.TS
tab(@), left, box;
l | l 
lB | l.
OPTION@Value
_
dateFormat@String which represents the format for the feed date.
locale@Here you can set the locale for your language.
openCommand@Here you can set which programm should be used to open the article link.
renderText@You can set how the text should be formatted. [OPTIONAL]
.TE
.RE

.TP
.I
~/.config/neix/feeds.conf
This file contains the list of feeds you want to read.
Below you can see the required format of an single entry.

.B
TITLE = PROTOCOL://[username[:password]@]DOMAIN.TOP-LEVEL-DOMAIN[/DIRECTORIES[/FILE]]

.SH AUTHORS
Maintained by Tom Schwarz<thomasschwarz96@web.de>, who is assisted by
other open source contributors. For more informations about 
.B neix
development see https://github.com/tomschwarz/neix.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B ncurses(1),
.B curl(1)
